---
title: Understanding PM 2.5 and PM 10 Levels
authors: metsci
tags: [weather, particulates, air pollution]
---

PM 2.5 and PM 10 are two types of air pollution that can have harmful effects on human health. PM stands for “particulate matter,” and the numbers refer to the size of the particles in micrometers. 
<!-- truncate -->

PM 2.5 particles are very small, with a diameter of 2.5 micrometers or less, while PM 10 particles are slightly larger, with a diameter of 10 micrometers or less.

Both PM 2.5 and PM 10 particles can come from a variety of sources, including car and truck emissions, power plants, construction sites, and fires. These particles can be inhaled into the lungs and cause respiratory problems, such as asthma and bronchitis. They can also contribute to heart disease and other health problems.

High levels of PM 2.5 and PM 10 pollution can be particularly harmful to people who are already at risk of respiratory problems, such as children, older adults, and people with asthma or other lung conditions. High levels of either type of pollution can also have wider impacts, such as reducing visibility and damaging crops and other vegetation.

To protect human health and the environment, it is important to reduce the levels of PM 2.5 and PM 10 pollution in the air. This can be done by controlling emissions from cars, power plants, and other sources, and by promoting the use of clean energy technologies. By taking these steps, we can help to improve the air quality and protect the health of people around the world.